.TH "snapper" "8" "0.0.6" "snapper" "System Tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
snapper - Command\-line program

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP
snapper [\fI\-\-global\-opts\fR] <\fBcommand\fR> [\fI\-\-command\-opts\fR] [\fBcommand-arguments\fR]

snapper \fBhelp\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
snapper is a command\-line interface to ZYpp system management library.
It can be used to install, update, remove software, manage repositories, perform
various queries, and more.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP
snapper provides a number of \fBcommands\fR. Each command accepts the options
listed in the GLOBAL OPTIONS section. These options must be specified
\fIbefore\fR the command name. In addition, many commands have specific
options, which are listed in this section. These command-specific options must
be specified \fIafter\fR the name of the command and \fIbefore\fR any
of the command arguments.

.TP
.B help
Shows help texts.

.TP
.B list-configs
List

.TP
.B create-config [options] <name>
Displays detailed informaion about the specified packages.

.TP
\fI\-t, \-\-template\fR name
Work only with the repository specified by the alias, name, number or URI. This
option can be used multiple times.

.TP
.B list [options]
List
.TP
\fI\-t, \-\-type\fR type
Type

.TP
.B create [options]
Create
.TP
\fI\-t, \-\-type\fR type
Type
.TP
\fI\-t, \-\-pre\-number\fR type
Type
.TP
\fI\-d, \-\-description\fR description
Description
.TP
\fI\-d, \-\-print\-number\fR description
Description
.TP
\fI\-d, \-\-cleanup\-algorithm\fR description
Description

.TP
.B modify [options] <number>
Modify
.TP
\fI\-d, \-\-description\fR description
Description

.TP
.B delete <number>
Delete

.TP
.B diff [options] <number1> <number2>
Diff
.TP
\fI\-o, \-\-output\fR description
Output
.TP
\fI\-f, \-\-file\fR file
Diff file

.TP
.B rollback [options] <number1> <number2>
Rollback
.TP
\fI\-f, \-\-file\fR file
Files

.TP
.B cleanup <cleanup-algorithm>
Cleanup

.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"

.TP
.I \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress normal output. Brief (esp. result notification) messages and error
messages will still be printed, though. If used together with conflicting
--verbose option, the --verbose option takes preference.
.TP
.I \-v, \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity. For debugging output specify this option twice.
.TP
.I \-t, \-\-table\-style
Specifies table style to use. Table style is identified by an integer number. TODO
.TP
.I \-c, \-\-config <name>
Use specified config file instead of the default files.
Other command line options specified together with --config and having
their counterpart in the config file are still prefered.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B /etc/sysconfig/snapper
Global
.TP
.B /etc/snapper/configs
Directory containing
.TP
.B /etc/snapper/config-templates
Directory containing
.TP
.B /etc/snapper/filters
Directory containing 

.SH "HOMEPAGE"

http://en.opensuse.org/Portal:Snapper

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Arvin Schnell <aschnell@suse.de>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
btrfs(8)
