---
title: Rollback - How to Recover from Boot Problems
author: Arvin Schnell
layout: post
piwik: true
---

As you might know it is possible to boot a btrfs snapshot of your root
filesystem. That allows you to recover from certain boot problems of your
system.

The approach is to manually boot a snapshot that is known to work and then
setup the system to use a read-write snapshot of that snapshot per default.

So far this only works with btrfs and the system must be properly configured,
e.g. mountpoint for subvolumes must be included in /etc/fstab, esp. for
/.snapshots. With openSUSE 13.2 all of that should work out of the box.

Warning: *First try this on a test system!*

Here is an example of the workflow:

Create a snapshot of a "good" state and remember the snapshot number:

~~~
# snapper create --description "good" --print-number
42
~~~

Now ruin your system:

~~~
# rm /bin/bash
~~~

Reboot the system. Your system will not boot correctly or at least you cannot
login. Reboot again and tell the kernel to boot the "good" snapshot by setting
the kernel rootflags parameter:

~~~
rootflags=subvol=.snapshots/42/snapshot
~~~

I inserted the rootflags parameter right after the root parameter. You might
also want to remove the splash and quiet parameter to better see potential
error messages.

Your system should boot fine except that the root filesystem is read-only now
since snapper normally creates read-only snapshots. So a few more steps are
required which snapper can do for you:

~~~
# snapper rollback
~~~

That command does the following:

1. Create a read-only snapshot of the btrfs default subvolume. That is the
   system you just ruined.

2. Create a read-write snapshot of the currently mounted btrfs subvolume. That
   is the "good" snapshot we created some minutes ago and booted into.

3. Set the btrfs default subvolume to the second of the just created snapshots.

Now reboot your system once again and everything should be working fine.

This feature is available in snapper since version 0.2.2.
